So we have seen this is setup of our project.
So we just created one package known as email and we created a class which is basically publicly specified
class.
Now I will explain what is our blueprint of our project?
And then I will explain some basics of class methods and objects, etc..
So let's see.
Let's see.
What is the blueprint of our project?
So Project Blueprint is consider this as a package package email app.
This is email, class and methods.
Just be I created.
So this is Project Blueprint Package Email app and this is email class and methods and which I created
before an ID I showed.
So now this is done.
These things are done in future.
What we are going to do as we move our project we create we will create one main class.
We will load all the methods related to this using objects, and we will execute these methods inside
this main class.
This is our main project blueprint.
So let us see what is basically.
O Java classes and methods.
So Java class.
Let's see first thing about class.
Everything in Java is associated with classes, an object without classes and objects.
You cannot create any code or we can say any method.
In Java.
So it contains attributes.
Methods, attributes are basically what we can say is class.
Classes plus attributes create some environment for method.
So for example, in real life example you can consider chorizo object has attributes such as weight
and color and methods are such like dry you break and something like that.
So basically what we can create, we can create car as a class, its attributes are weight, color,
their model numbers, etc. and methods car can stop, drive, break, etc..
So classes like Object Constructor, we can say it's creates the object or we can constructor off the
object.
Or it can be a blueprint for creating objects.
So objects are basically just invoking the class.
Glasses also holds some user defined attributes to parse values or input from user.
So we can view the user defined attributes also inside the classes.
Now what is meant by objects in Java?
So objectives are basically associated with classes.
But.
What is the simplest form we can say that to use a class object is used basically.
So if you define some class and you want to use that class, you have to define the object.
As class is already created, we have to only just create the object for that particular class as we
created already that object class.
We can easily create that object, but like class, then we can create the object.
So this is all about the class.
Now let us see some what we are going to do in our project.
So before moving in further, I will proceed with code or a project.
It is.
So inside this.
I created this class, so I need to create some methods.
But before that, we need to invoke some libraries.
So for the libraries, I'm going to put input.
Java.
Dot util dot star.
I will explain.
What is this?
Meaning I'm not going to use this, but I'm not currently using this library.
It's showing it is showing this.
You are not using this library currently.
But what is the significance of this is very important library.
Java dot dot dot dot.
Meaning in the utility I'm using utilizar.
All things related to that.
So we can say this very basic library inside Java.
Another same library I'm going to use is import java dot io dot.
But it is basically input output library for invoking and taking user inputs.
It will be helpful library.
So.
As this is done.
Our first thing I'm going to explain here is how to take user inputs in Java.
So you can do this scanner, which is the by default method.
We can say a default method for taking inputs.
I'm going to use this.
So I'm going to invoke inside class only because I'm going to specify it as a public.
So what I can do is public scanner.
Public is access specified a public scanner.
As you invoke scanner, you can see now the java dot util it's started so scanner this scanner class
is belongs to this library java dot utility it's by default library.
Is equal to new.
Skinner uses syntax, basically syntax to invoke scanner system, which is again one one of the by default
classes system dot in which is basically method.
So this is done.
Now I'm going to set up some variables here.
So.
For this.
I will explain.
I just put here scanner glass or explanations?
Now.
Sitting.
Variables.
Setting variables.
I'm going to set some variables here.
But.
For the security issue.
We can say, I want to create some abstract thing here.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to use.
Private here as this is public given I'm going to use here private.
So let us consider this private string.
I'm going to specify four string F name, basically first name.
Similarly private string.
Last name.
Similarly like that, I'm going to create some.
Similarly like department.
DPT department for department, then for email.
Then for password.
Now consider this.
I'm going to specify all these things in the.
String method like string as a string variable only.
Now I'm going to specify it's male capacity which is in integer.
Capacity.
Equal to five.
I'm considering by default 500 500 and be.
Then private.
String again.
Alternatively, basically.
See.
Return.
So we are done with invoking.
Now, remember, these are the global or we can say these are strings can be accessible throughout this
class.
So in the class I can create as much as I want for methods so I can use this throughout this class.
As you can see, this class enter, I can use throughout this class.
So we are done with creating some variables and I'm setting use to the private to.
Not give access directly, basically.
Once this is done, no one can access it.
This.
As its access to various private.
So let us see with some constructive methods and what is meant by method in Java.
Okay.
So.
Java class.
We have seen too, as I told you, I will tell you some more about class.
Class is a blueprint we have seen.
So class is something like it.
Stores of functions automated in one block of code, basically.
Consider an example sketch of hosts is a class.
Then it contains all details about the prototype of house doors, windows, etc. etc..
Who host is now the object of that class?
Sketch of hosts.
Basically, I created this sketch of House.
Now House is an object.
So what I can do is class contains all the properties of that object.
Related.
So syntax to declare this class class name as we created there.
And I'm going to specify access specified before that.
Consider if you are not given any access to there.
By default it will be default access specified, which is basically public only in Java.
But if you can specify public, private and protected, protected is fully protected like you have to
invoke.
It's more what we can say are method for privacy and security.
So as I told you object, we are going to create object.
I'm not created here any object, but we are going to create an object for that purpose also.
So it's basically used to call class or execute that class.
Object is also called as instance of classes.
Without object, we cannot call class.
Always remember that to call the class we have to use object.
So for that example, previous example, as I told you, sketch of house class, sketch of house, door
and windows are some methods or we can see functions inside this.
So this is main method.
If you know that in the Java public static void min is a default method to execute any program in Java.
Without this, you cannot start the program.
You cannot execute the program or that sketch of us.
I created this object.
OBJ You can see obj one new like this and execute that object.
We are going to see in further details about Java objects.
So now Java methods now have integrated methods.
So I will show an ID.
Basically if I want to print something in ID.
My default monetary system dropped out.
Now you will see the error here.
Basically, this team got out.
Any error?
It is not.
Or invoke inside any class.
Why?
The thing is, it's only defined to the method.
First, create method.
Create class.
Inside that creates a method.
Then you can invoke it.
That method, as simple as that.
So methods are declared within the classes.
It contains whole code of particular functions.
Method Contents return value and excess specifiers.
They are the object classes.
As object classes are created, we can easily access methods using that object.
I mean, method is default method, as I told you to run or build code or project anything.
Main method.
Always remember public static equipment and it's always written strings.
You cannot change to integer or something like that.
You.
You can print integers, but you cannot return integers inside.
Main method.
Packages are in the Java.
As I told you, I'm against tailing that it just creating a folder and I'm storing all the classes inside
it.
Now there are two methods user defined methods and standard library methods.
User defined methods like I created.
I'm going to create some methods here.
Similarly, like that, you can also create some user defined methods, basically.
It's shows that it's user defined methods.
There are some standard library methods that I created scanner system, all the standard library methods
that that I mentioned built in methods and Java.
So if you want to check number even or you can create some or even not functions that's user defined.
But I specified some library method like random system.
These are not in basically system defined methods.
So now let's move on to our code.
Now I'm I told you about let's see how to how we can proceed with building our project.
So we created all things here.
Now I want to create one constructor.
Now, what constructor will do?
It will print what I want, basically.
First thing.
Second thing, it will give me the output and as well as creating constructor itself is a like privacy
thing inside Java.
I am going to invoke or I'm going to run only constructor so it will not use this private string or
something like that.
It will take value from that.
But you cannot change this value.
Or we can say third party cannot change this value.
Just I'm going to create it.
So constructor I'm going to specify.
You're not received.
First name, last name and everything.
That's it.
Oh, I'm going to tell, like, only for that.
Only like, first name last time.
That's it.
You can change it to some other names also, but be careful about the name.
Now consider I'm going to create this as a public.
Always remember class and constructor.
Have same name.
So I'm going to give the constructor attributes.
F names, same name.
I'm going always remember inside the constructor you have to use same name.
After that.
You need to specify something like this f name and this f name are totally different.